>> Hello
and welcome to the Haskell weekly podcast. I am your host
today. Cameron Gera, Uh, engineer I.T.
pro T.V.. And with me today we have a
coworker of mine and my boss
Taylor. How's it going, man?
>> It's going good. Thanks for having me on the show camp.
>> Yeah, man, you know, figured you know, we're in a
new year. So happy 2021. Everyone
on Do you know, we got to take a timeto look
back at what we have come from, You know, 2020
was filled with a lot of stuff. You know, we all
transition to work from home. We all figured out
how to communicate still without in face
meetings and figured out how to use Zoom, which
some of us are still questionable. That speaking about lots of
>> programs we got, zoom, we got teams, we got
discord. We tried a bunch of others
>> that we did, but
hey, we're making it through, you know, day by day
on bond. Thank you, listeners joining us today, but
yes. So today we're gonna talk about a little bit about 2020 for us
on Ben also, uh, kind of dive into a
post that was written by Adam West
Peyser about lessons learned from a year
of writing. Haskell, which is a great
post, definitely would encourage you. It's and, um,
addition to
>> 2, 45. I've lost track of the issue
numbers of Haskell Weekly, which, you know, you think if
anybody knew, I would know. But it's 2
45. It's the most recent one. So I guess
this is Yeah. This is from 2 45 e mean, it was
easy when I was on issue, like, seven.
But when you're up in the two hundreds, it's been a
>> while. Yeah, we've got got a lot. So yeah, go check
it out. Issue to 45 of High School
Weekly on This is the 33rd
episode of High School Weekly Podcast. So,
you know, we're getting up there. We're gonna start losing count of these as well.
But you know, so today we're gonna talk about
this post by Adam, and he actually gives a
shout out the Haskell week. Lisa. Thank you, Adam. Work. Glad you
had, um, enjoy the weekly
update of what's happening in the world of high school. Uh,
you know, it's definitely a kind of a
sparse field sometimes. And so we have a
place like Haskell Weekly to go and, you know, read
articles about high school and other functional programming languages.
It's kind of funny.
>> Funny you mention that because when I started Haskell
Weekly, I was afraid that some weeks there just
wouldn't be anything or there'd be, like, two links
to publish or something like that. And surprisingly, that has never
been the case. There's never been a shortage of content.
So, uh, just, I guess,
thank from me. Thank you to the whole high school
community for writing so much good stuff with such
regularity. It makes my job collecting all of
it a lot easier.
>> Exactly. Yeah, I would also have that
fear. I think of starting some sort of weekly
news pot meal news, grouping off
articles and then not have anything to post. But, you
know, high school weekly high school community
is coming in strong for sure.
Haskell Weekly, um but awesome. All right, Taylor. Well, I
want to kind of jump in, um and I want you to kind of share maybe
some of the highlights of your 2020
and you know something you've learned, you know,
work or high school related. Um, that,
you know, you were like, Oh, this is pretty sweet,
>> man. You think I would have prepped for this? But
questions catch me a little off guard. I'm gonna stall
and pull one of the quotes that Adam put in this article that I really
agreed with. And I'm not sure that it's something that has
changed for me in 2020. But he
says that an important perspective when writing code is
understanding how it will exist through
time and what demands will be placed on it and how the
fundamental assumptions that code makes will inevitably
change. And for me, and my career is a
software engineer. That's something that I've just
seen come true over and over again where,
like sometimes there's a
focus on how do I make this code as clever
or performance or whatever is possible in
isolation. But really, what's important is like,
is it easy to change over time? And even
as it passes hands, you know, through a team or something like that,
at least in my career, that's the thing that has been important because I've worked
on long running software with large teams
of people or maybe large is a misnomer. I
typically work for startups, so, you know, like less than
10 people. But more than one. That's that's large,
I think.
>> Yeah,
e Think any
programmer knows that, you know, Could you, right?
55 minutes ago is now legacy.
Something has changed
because we experienced that everyday. Working through a
legacy a p I that I've been
that I.T. pro for a long time. I literally just
today I was looking at code I wrote in JavaScript
four years ago and I was like, Wow,
>> you were a different person back then.
>> Yeah, yeah, It's like this is gonna
be great. It's awesome. Now it's trash. But that's
okay. You know, we've learned on well,
>> and now it's in the trash. So we're
>> belong, Yes, delete over 5000
lines of code today. So that's that's a good day.
Good day at the office. Eso thats
why
>> a non answer to your question? Cam, what's your answer
about
>> 2020? I mean, actually, it's funny because this
is something Adam kind of mentioned at one point,
um, is using stack
or not Stack Well, yes, using that, he
does mention that he's been using that. But what I meant to say
is he's been using servant or you
mentioned servant assed faras, like some type level
shenanigans that you can kind of learn that
will, you know, really be
helpful in the long run. And I think we've
really benefited from switching r a p
I over to servant and slowly moving routes
over because, you know, we've been getting documentation for
free. We've been getting, ah, lot of, you know,
benefits out of switching over to servant
>> testing for free. Certain types of tests. Yeah,
>> we're testing for free. We get a lot of great benefits
from over some of the other. You know, our other
AP that we framework we use half stack, you know,
have stock was good at the time, but now we've kind of
understood the fundamentals of Haskell a little bit better, and we
can kind of conceptualized type levels. And Anne, it's a little bit
more as a team. And so I'm really happy that our teams kind of
just taking servant by storm and
really, you know, just really creating
on a P I. That's a joy to work. And, um,
especially as a way of FBI
>> and that, you know, touches on something else that Adam talks about in this
post of in general, preferring to write
junior code but
knowing the team you're with and knowing what they can handle
and changing what you write to fit that so for
me, you know, one of the reasons that we were using Half
Stack was that it is. I mean, it's
got some complicated stuff behind the scenes, but generally when you use it, it's
pretty straightforward. It's just like, right stuff in Amman ad and
it'll work. Um, whereas servant has a much higher
bar to clear and you get a lot of benefits from it. But
I have been pleasantly
surprised that our team, which has quite a few junior
engineers on it that are not familiar with Haskell,
um has been able to pick up servant and run with it. It's
been great.
>> Yeah, yeah, I think you know that Helps toe
have also senior people on the team that
have kind of led the way. Um, and kind
of I know demystified some
of what's happening, eh? So we can all kind of learn from one
another. Um, really? Well, and I think, honestly,
2020 was a year that we had to
grow together, you know, in a different kind of way. You know, usually
we're in the office, and we're sitting next to each other, and, you know,
we always We've been preparing for a long time, but I think
at this 0.2020 kind of push just to
be even a tighter knit group
where, you know, we're communicating better. We're
teaching each other, you know, healthy habits
and just really, you know, helping each other,
uh, build together as our company slogan
currently is, Uh,
but you know, that Z you know, that's
what 2020 really offered us. So, you know, I'm
really thankful for that on, but I think you
know, for us as a team, we're
like, what? Your to your three of high school
writing Three. Little more
>> than three. Because I joined right after y'all had
switched toe Haskell and I'm coming up on my third
year.
>> Mm. Okay. Yeah. So we're in
three years of writing high school, and, you know, I think last year was
really ah year that we
stopped worrying about JavaScript code or
worrying about migrations from various platforms. And we
have been just really solely working on
three I.T. pro T.V. product s. So I think that
was really great. Um,
>> yeah. And I'm sure that, you know, the remote
members of our team are very glad that
we're remote first. Now, everyone's
in the same shoes that they've been in the whole time. So we
understand their plight a little better.
>> Um oh, yeah.
Um, but yeah. So back to the post to
is he He talks about
type level witnesses, which he tried out. Hey,
had a little little difficulty. Um,
honestly, I really never heard of, you
know, the type of witnesses. So I really should probably
follow the block posts because he linked to
a type level witness block post. So I
should definitely check that out. But do you know anything
about that?
>> I don't. I pulled up the block post, so I'm trying to scan it really
quick. If I had to guess, I think this would be about
the like, um, ghosts of
departed proofs paper where
you encode information in the
at the type level, so that once you
prove something via like a smart
constructor, you have evidence of that proof that you
can carry along. So the canonical example would
be like, um, you have proved that a
number is odd. So now you're type is odd
number rather than just number into juror or whatever.
Um, and in general, like, you could do that
with new type rappers for any particular type. But
in general, if you want to connect like,
uh, refinements or constraints to
stuff, there's a mawr principled way to do all of
that. And I think that's what this type level witness stuff
is. Although maybe I could be grossly
misrepresenting it. So I apologize. If I am,
>> maybe we'll cover that in another weeks of
high school weekly podcast here, you know,
um, but yeah. Okay. So thank you for
trying to give me some insight there.
Yeah,
>> and so my my reading of his,
you know, hesitation about using type level witnesses is
that they are nice and they give you some good
things. But the interface for using them is
two clunky or too complex or too difficult for him,
which I think is a fair complaint. Not just about type
level witnesses, but many things
and type level high school. And, you know, for me, that was one of
the reasons I push back on Servant for so
long is like Well, yeah, I can see all the benefits, but
I'm not sure what all the downsides are.
>> Yeah, yeah, it definitely you with
high overhead to understand. Something
really tends to rub me the wrong way as well,
because I'm like, Well, you know, it's not just me
at that writing this code like it's an entire
team. We all need to be ableto handle this. And
if it's clunky and harder to use like it's just not
ready, then you know.
>> And it's not only is it hard to write or
use but, like, maintain or understand when
something goes wrong. We ran into that the other day with
Servant, where we had moved on in
point from our old service to our new one. And it
wasn't behaving the same. And like everything we could look at was the
same. It was, oh, something behind the scenes that servant is
doing. It's actually Mawr correct and like, it's good
that it's doing that thing, but we weren't aware of
that. So it was hard for us to debug this problem because we were
looking at our application code rather than the, you know,
servant code,
>> right? Yeah. But, you
know, with time, everybody kinda can work through those clunks
and, you know, maybe Adam in 2021
can, you know, master with, you know, type
level witnesses, and you look forward Thio reading
his post next January E
>> finally figured out Type
>> level witnesses, Yes, or maybe. Hey,
if you want to write it in 2021 I'm all for
it. Definitely down there to check it out.
Ah, yeah. Um
so I think this is something we faced,
and we've gone through many iterations of
build systems and, you know,
we've we're using Stack, but we know it's
limitations, and we're we rub up against it. We thought
about Nick's like, and he kind
of mentioned this in the block post, and he's kind of gives
his his two cents per se about it, Um,
which I thought was was informative. I think
you know, for us we want
all the cash and we could get so if we could do Knicks like
we're all about it. But like he says, it's a little complicated
until we've kind of, you know, we have some team
members who use Nick's ls and they will not be
named their great. Uh, but
>> names have been changed to protect the innocent.
Yeah, I mean, Knicks has been like a pipe dream for us
for years and not so much like
nix the technology but the stuff that it brings. Like you
mentioned with cashing because we have spent ah lot
of engineering hours trying to get the cashing not
only on our local machines, but on C I,
uh, to get are cashing in a good place with stacks so that we
don't spend, you know, 15 minutes waiting for a really small
change to go through our C I process.
>> Yeah. So you're saying if we could get the cash
right, we would save a lot of
cash?
Very true. Yeah. Yeah, You're welcome.
I'll be here all year. Maybe
outrage from from viewers. Get this
kid off of this way. Can't handle those
>> Haskell puns anymore. Kick him off the
podcast.
>> He's out of here. All right, Well, then you'll get
tailored by himself because we my friends
>> were Justus Bad
>> Fair. But hey, at least we've got them, right? That jokes for
days.
>> Yeah. Um, but yeah, I I liked
hearing his take on build systems because
it kind of matches ours. Like we're using Stack. There are some things
about it that annoy us, but not enough to push us on.
Anything else and something like next would be great. We
could probably get away with using COBOL directly, but Stack gives
us some niceties that we want to stick with. Although I was
surprised to hear that this, like, flat name
space area that he mentions. I don't think I've ever seen that. And we have
eight people working on stack working with
stack all day every day. Um,
so I don't know. He says the dreaded like it's some well known
thing I have never seen. Knock on
>> wood. Same. Yeah. Tomorrow. Coming
to work tomorrow. Saturday. But come
in Monday, and it's gonna be just like,
uh, nobody can work today. We're all
work through this problem together. Uh, but
yeah. So then he moves on from build systems to kind
off some of the tools which I guess
can play into the build system. Uh, but,
you know, it sounds like he's a G.H.C. I.T. fan, which
we hear it I.T. pro T.V. are also
G.H.C. defense.
>> Yeah, it's surprising how helpful G.H.C.
ideas, given that it's such a simple tool like it
hardly does anything in principle. It's like if you
started G.H.C. I and just hit colon reload
over and over again every time you saved a file. But
that's really helpful. I mean, G.H.C. is a nice
compiler, especially once you're familiar with
how it reports errors to you, right?
Um but yeah, that, like G.H.C. i
d by itself is great. So thank you, Neil
Mitchell, for starting that
>> woof. Yeah, And then we've got you know,
something? I think we've tried here. It I.T. pro. At least a few of us
have is getting high school language server
up and going. Um, you know,
we've caused some crashes from that.
>> I was going to say it's a running joke that when one of
our one of the guys on our team runs HLs, it's like,
Well, his machine is gonna crash sometime in the next 48
hours. We don't know when, but it will
>> happen. Yeah, but, I mean, that would
work if you turn the machine off
>> every night. But yeah. And this was a long time ago that this,
you know, internal name came up, So I'm sure HLS
is better. Um, but we haven't tried it in the
meantime.
>> Yeah, Yeah, it's been a minute. Um,
because H l s and h i e all
kind of merged
>> together, right? I have not been able to keep track
of all the naming, emerging, but I think that's true or
HLs includes h i e or something like that.
Mhm. Yeah, Yeah, they
fixed a bunch of memory leaks, and supposedly, it's a lot better and
faster now, but I haven't given another chance.
>> Yeah, you know, I just use this little
Adam, uh, V s code plug in called
Probably yoke. Does this guy made e
>> didn't wanna plug my own plug in, but yes, I
wrote one called Purple Yoke, and it behaves a lot like
G.H.C. I.T. where really it just spins up
G.H.C. I in the background and reloads it for you a bunch and gives
you the little red squiggly underlines which works really
>> well for me. Hey, More to come in
2021 Probably.
>> Yeah. I might make, like three commits to it this
>> year if we could
get, like, a quick jump or something working with it.
Uh,
>> well, yeah, I was gonna say one of the other tools that he mentions his Haskell
tags, and that has been really useful again. It's like
a relatively simple tool, and it doesn't do a
whole lot, But just being able to say, like, keyboard
shortcut jumped aware this thing is defined amazingly
useful because I do that all the time And what I used to do was
selected and search through the whole project for it. And then, like, oh,
no, these air you call sites, not definition sites.
>> Yeah, it's a cave man.
E I still I'm
stuck doing that because
e I guess I lost
my hashtags configuration or something along those lines with
V s code. But eso I really haven't been
doing that. I've been doing the control shift f with the highlighted
word and yeah, then being like,
uh, scroll, scroll, scroll! Oh, there it It's
OK, Nita, Maybe that's one of
my 2021 resolutions. Just get that
get away. Working again? Yeah,
It's like it's one of those things. Like it
broke, but it wasn't a huge inconvenience.
Yeah, I don't know. I guess I have a high
tolerance for inconvenience.
>> Well, you know, it's a little thing where you don't feel the
pain that much. It's like, Oh, yeah. It took me five seconds to
find this definition instead of one second.
And maybe you don't do that operation enough
for it to matter, or it's like, just part of your work flow.
So you keep
>> your like, uh,
yeah, so anything I definitely think the
two league in 2020 was. You know, there's
some major improvements that happened there. Um, for
sure. So, yeah. Team G.H.C.
I.T. always the old reliable at this
point, HLS is the cool, new shiny toy
that you know, has a squeaky wheel here and there.
Mhm So. But yeah. So then
he kind of moves on talking about
the release of G.H.C. nine. Done
done.
>> Yeah, that's a big one. Which maybe we should do a whole
episode on that, But I feel like I'm not qualified for it
because the big like, you know, headline release
or feature for G.H.C. nine is linear
types, which are really exciting,
but I don't really know anything
about them, so
>> Okay, it will be good. Maybe we'll learn about it and then talk
about it will be good practice. Good. Yeah,
>> but yeah. The first release candidate for G.H.C.
nine was released. Um, I think I installed it
on one of my machines, but I haven't really played with it yet.
>> Mhm. Yeah, I haven't
at all. Didn't even know there is a pre release version s
So you know, that's how in the no. I am here. Uh,
just hosting the high school weekly podcast. No big deal.
Yeah, Kind of.
>> Haskell. Wait. There's a G.H.C. nine.
>> What's G.H.C.
e you thug?
Yeah. Hugs. Not drugs
any. Uh yeah. And then
another great thing that happened in 2020 that was
announced near the end. Was the high school
foundation being formed? I think that was
a big win for 2020.
>> Yeah, I'm really looking forward to seeing where that
goes. Right now, it's kind of nebulous, like it is a
good thing that it's there and they've secured a bunch of funding
and all the right people are involved. But
what are they going to do? I want to see what
happens.
>> Yes, we can all sit there like Petr
Marty Katz. And with someone maniacal
cackle, Mr
>> Bigglesworth. Yeah, yeah,
but, um but yeah, those are definitely things, like maybe at
the end of 2021 we'll look back and
say, you know, G.H.C. nine was this
watershed moment for the community. Linear types
are amazing and change the world. Um,
and Haskell Foundation united all these disparate
projects and really helped push the ball forward or push
the lift the boat up, Whatever the expression is,
rather yeah, row the boat. Get everyone
rowing in the same direction. There we go. We got there.
>> Lift. Lift the boat. Uh,
rising.
>> Rising tide lifts all boats is what I was going for,
>> but oh, God, you They're all rising.
Tides were just pouring
>> water into the ocean. Yeah, there's too many idioms to pick from.
>> Yeah, you mixed him up. That's okay. We like we like,
emerged stuff here.
Yeah. Yeah. So I'm gonna
put you back on the spot against you. You denied My
last time I asked the question, but what
was? Yeah, one thing that sticks out in your mind of
something you learned in 2020 can be meta.
It could be code related. It could be
so
>> So I got something. It's kind of code related, and it's actually my,
um, my resolution for this
year, and it is to write less
code at work. So for
those listeners that aren't employees of I.T.
pro um, I I managed the team of
engineers here, but I also in the past year
and my whole time here, have done a lot of engineering myself,
and I've found that, um,
it can often I often use that as like a short cut of like, I
know how I want this done, so I'll just do it.
But that kind of Rob's everyone else on the team of that
opportunity of poking around and trying it out and
seeing what works and what doesn't work. So one of my goals for the new
year is, too. Let my team
explore the space of how to solve problems,
and I'll be happy to give direction and coach.
But I want to write less code at
>> work. Can I have that resolution to
the whole team.
>> Can't write less code. Or maybe
>> we can. Maybe that's what we should go for it. Yeah, just
minimalistic. I mean, Dutch skin.
No, I think there's a lot to learn in 2021. Looking forward.
Toa writing more code? Yeah. Solving more
problems.
>> Yeah. Oh, that reminds me. Um,
I gave up on the advent of code on, like, day
22 or 23. We were talking about that. And I think the last time
we recorded How did you do on a camp?
>> Chuckles just chuckles.
I mean, if you count getting through
day four. Part one is a wind, then, Yeah,
I think it's further than I made it in any other years of
avenue code. I think I totally skipped it in
2019 and 2018. I did like,
a couple of days. It's just hard to like,
Yeah, I didn't have a ton of, like, you know, here at
the house. We've got a new puppy. We were doing
home renovations. So, like, doing stuff outside of
work is generally not coding
s. So
>> it takes a surprising amount of time. Even if you're good
at those types of puzzles You still have to, like,
read it and understand what it's asking and try it out and
debug it. And, you know, then you want to write, you know, make your own
code better and all that. So, yeah, it's it's a big time
commitment.
>> Yeah, it wasn't Wasn't ready for it. Yeah,
So maybe I'll prep everything next year and just be
like, all right. From December 1st to
December 25th, I code. I
>> got an hour a day blocked out on my calendar. Don't interrupt
me.
>> Yeah, just take off time of work. It's like,
take my sick, sick days like an hour
every day spread one sick day over a
whole week. Yeah. Can I make that work?
We'll see. HR must have to weigh in on
that. Fair enough, But
yeah, so you know that's
2020. Now we're heading into
2021. And, you know, we've got a new
slew of opportunities for high school weekly podcast, and
we actually also would love to invite any of our listeners
or block post authors who are
interested in maybe sharing what they have to say on high
school podcast we love for you to reach out.
Um, Taylor, where can they find us?
>> Yeah, I was gonna say, uh, we have mentioned that before, kind of
in passing. But really, if you want to be a guest on the podcast, if you got something to
say or if we have grossly misrepresented one of your own
block posts, please come on and correct the record.
Uh, and you can find us at
Haskell weekly dot news or you can email us
at info at Haskell weekly dot news
or Twitter. Our handle is Haskell
Weekly. Those are all the best ways to get us or on get hub.
Our user name is Haskell Weekly, and you could make an issue on the
repo or pull request or whatever. Um, any of those
places I will hopefully notice and get
back to
>> you. Yeah. Or you can look up Taylor Fausak on
Google. Find this phone number and call them.
>> Please don't. Hopefully my number is not online, but
screen all my calls.
>> A tous point. I feel like everything's online.
Want. Want somebody to
>> call me on key base or something,
>> but shell phone
just you know
anything? Let's not get into song here.
Uh, yeah. No. So thank you. All
listeners who joined us today. We really
enjoyed having Taylor on the show. Thank you again,
man.
>> Yeah, thanks for hosting. And, uh, you know,
hopefully my another one of my resolutions here in
2021 is to actually record one of these
podcasts every week. We did pretty good toward the end of the
year last year on, we did pretty good when we started, but there have
been some big sabbaticals in between. So
this year, hopefully we'll do better.
>> Hopefully, this year will be consistent because, um,
you know, our sponsor I.T. pro T.V. is allowing
us to do this. And so we wanna thank them. Um, they also
want to thank you for listening. So if you're interested in
I.T. pro T.V. ve learning platform for I.T.
professionals, I encourage you to goto I.T. pro dot
T.V. and see what we have to offer. And if you're
interested in a subscription, uh, there is a promo
code available to you. It is Haskell Weekly
30 that you can put in a
check out, and that will apply 30% off the
lifetime of your subscription, so we would definitely
encourage you to check it out. And we really appreciate you being on
today. E. I think that's all I've got anything else to
add? Taylor?
>> Uh, that is it. Happy hacking, Have a
good year and Audio's
posts.